---
title: Release
has_children: false
nav_order: 7
---

# Release

The project release is automatically generated by the CI/CD pipeline (as described in the corresponding section). Once the release is generated, it is published on GitHub. The release contains the backend and the web frontend executable packages.

## Choice of the license

The chosen license is [MIT](https://opensource.org/). This choice stems from the fact that this is an academic project, and I want it to be open and usable by anyone.

### Human Explanation

| Permissions | Limitations | Conditions |
| ------------ |------------ |------------ |
Commercial use | Liability  | License and copyright notice |
Modification | Warranty | |
Distribution |  |  |
Private use |  |  |

## Choice of the versioning schema

Software versioning refers to the process of assigning a unique identifier to a software state. The identifier is typically an alphanumeric sequence of characters separated by dots, slashes, or dashes.

For GraphProject, we followed the guidelines proposed by [Semantic Versioning](https://semver.org/). Consequently, the software version is represented by three numbers separated by a dot: MAJOR.MINOR.PATCH.

The correct version to be associated with the software state is based on the saved commits, which were written following the Conventional Commit approach. We used the following approach:

MAJOR release
- Any commit type and scope terminating with `!` causes a `BREAKING CHANGE`

MINOR release
- Commit type `chore` with scope `api-deps` (Dependency updates)
- Commit type `feat` (Features) with any scope

**PATCH** release
- Commit type `chore` with scope `core-deps` (Dependency updates)
- Commit type `fix` (Bug Fixes) with any scope
- Commit type `docs` (Documentation) with any scope
- Commit type `perf` (Performance improvements) with any scope
- Commit type `revert` (Revert previous changes) with any scope

No release
- Commit type `test` (Tests)
- Commit type `ci` (Build and continuous integration)
- Commit type `build` (Build and continuous integration)
- Commit type `chore` with scope `deps` (Dependency updates)
- Commit type `chore` (General maintenance) with scopes different than the ones mentioned above 
- Commit type `style` (Style improvements) with any scope 
- Commit type `refactor` (Refactoring) with any scope
